Ultimate Guide to Camping Adventures
Yala National Park, Udawalawe National Park, Wilpattu National Park, Belihuloya River, Knuckles Mountain Range, Vaddha Village, Kitulgala Forest Reserve, Minneriya National Park, Meemure, Horton Plains, Sinharaja Rainforest, Sorabora Lake
Explore the Best Camping Spots


“Camping is not time spent but invested” Camping is one of the best ways to be spending time outdoors, absorbing the beauty and amazement of nature. Sri Lanka comes on the top of the list under the best camping places in the world. Sri Lanka is an island with a land blessed with various locations from high mountain ranges and vast plains to beaches and lagoons, from wildlife safari sites to dense rainforests. The number of places which are the favorites of many campers is just irresistible. You can choose from rainforest adventure camping, trekking camping, safari camping, lake and river-side camping to camping close to the Vaddha ( the indigenous people)village.

Camping in Sri Lanka
It’s not just a camping experience. You will get to experience the nature of the island, and there are so many places to see and enjoy including nature tracking trails, rocks, and mountains, nature sceneries, waterfalls, rivers, lakes, forests, and wildlife.

Eco-Tourism in Sri Lanka
Eco-tourism in Sri Lanka has become quite popular by today. It gives you the opportunity to experience the nature in its purest form. It's about breathing in the real freedom that lies in the wilderness away from civilization. It promises maximum exposure to nature with the revival from the busy and hectic everyday life. Among the list of places available to visit in eco-tourism in Sri Lanka, rainforests, national parks, rivers, lakes, remote villages, and mountains are the most popular destinations. For example camping in Yala National Park, Udawalawe National Park, Wilpattu National Park, Belihuloya river camping, Knuckles mountain range camping, Vaddha village camping, camping in Kithulgala forest reserve would give you an amazing experience. Camping in Minneriya national park, camping in Meemure, camping in Horton Plains, camping in Sinharaja rainforest and the Sorabora lake campsite are the most beautiful places which enrich the real value of your camping adventure.

Yala National Park Camping Sri Lanka
Camping in Yala National Park
If you want to get the most authentic jungle experience of the big game of Sri Lanka, including the Sri Lankan elephant, Leopard, black bear and aquatic birds, lying under a million stars, sitting in the cozy warmth of a roaring log fire, camping in the wilderness, Yala National Park is the ideal place for it.

Yala National Park holds the title for being the second biggest national park on the island, and it is also the most visited national park by both local and international tourists. It consists of 5 blocks where only 2 of them are open to the public. It spreads on a land of 979 Square kilometers (378 Sq MI). Locating in the southeast region of the Island, embracing the Indian ocean, Yala National Park lies covering both southern and Uva Provinces. It is about 300 kilometers far from Colombo. There are number or well-experienced tour guides and agencies waiting to welcome your visit to offer you on an unforgettable camping adventure on the Yala National Park providing the opportunity to witness the real habitats of wild animals in its closest possible views. Without letting the rain to spoil your camping adventure in Yala National Park, You should plan your trip. The best time to visit the Yala National Park is from June to September.

It is best known for its diverse flora and fauna. It's also a perfect place for wildlife observation and birdwatching since it's the home for 215 bird species and 6 of them are endemic to Sri Lanka. It has the reputation of having one of the highest leopard densities in the whole planet. The number of mammals reported is 44 and the chance of encountering elephants is so high because the Yala elephant herd contains about 300 - 350 individuals. You get the opportunity to observe their behavior while camping near water sources where a large number of animals tend to attract by the time of sunset.

Apart from the usual food, you will get the opportunity to have a bonfire and little BBQ. You will also taste freshly prepared local food during camping. Some recommended camping companies are Leopard trials, Mahoora tented safari camps, the beach camp, and Yala safari camping. Out of these, most are facilitated with luxury bedding, attached bathrooms, and all other modern amenities.

Udawalawe National Park Camping
Udawalawe National Park Camping
Udawalawe National Park is the third most visited park in Sri Lanka, and it is located in the border of Uva and Sabaragamuwa provinces. It covers a land of 30,821 hectares (119.00 Sq mi). It is 165 kilometers (103 mi) far from Colombo. The park was initially created as a sanctuary for the wild animals who lost their homes due to the construction of the Udawalawe reservoir on the Walawe River and as a protection for the catchment of the reservoir. You can visit Udawalawe National Park throughout the year.

It is most known for being a safe home for many water birds and Sri Lankan elephants. It has a huge elephant population of about 600-700 individuals. So catching a glimpse of elephants is so usual in this park. There is also a transit home for orphaned elephants, where they take care of orphaned or injured elephants and release back to their natural surroundings. The typical habitat is open grasslands. The average climate annually is 27-28°c and has an annual rainfall of 1500 millimeters.

Moreover, you might get the chance of catching a glimpse of the rusty-spotted cat, fishing cat, Sri Lankan leopard, and the Sri Lankan sloth bear. Sri Lankan sambar deer, Sri Lankan axis deer, Indian muntjac, Sri Lankan spotted chevrotain, wild boar, and water buffalo can be seen more commonly. One hundred eighty-four bird species are recorded to be in the park where some are migrants.

There are several camping companies in Udawalawe National Park willing to give you a promising and memorable luxury camping experience. They are all ready-made campsites with modern comforts including luxury beds, private yet modern bathroom facilities, decent meals, and free Wi-Fi. Some recommended camping companies for a perfect camping night are Mahoora Tented Safari Camps, Riverside Camping Udawalawe, Big Game Camp Udawalawe, and Udawalawe Safari Campground.

Wilpattu National Park Camping Sri Lanka
Wilpattu National Park Camping
Wilpattu National Park is the biggest and oldest national park in Sri Lanka. It is located in Puttalam district towards the North West coast lowland dry zone of the country. It is approximately 180 kilometers north of Colombo. The park spreads through a land of 1317 Square kilometers ( 131,693 hectares). When considering the climate in Wilpattu, an annual temperature ranges from 27°c to 30°c and the estimated yearly rainfall is 900 millimeters. The best time to visit the park is from February to October although it can be visited throughout the year.

It is most known for the extensive collection of endangered wild animals like Sri Lankan leopard, Sri Lankan elephant and the sloth bear. Specially the sloth bear is one of the rarest species in the world in which the number of animals left is only around 1000. The other important fact about this park is it consists of many natural lakes.

This place is all about safari camping. Camping companies like Wilpattu Safari Camp, Mahoora Tented Safari Camps, Leopard Trails and Wilpattu Safari Holiday are some of the highly recommended companies which offers you a comfortable and extraordinary camping experience in the Wilpattu National Park. After all, who would not be excited to camp right in the heart of the largest national park in the county and witness all those rare and endangered wild animals with the naked eye along with the beautiful and spectacular sceneries all over the park.

Belihuloya River Camping Sri Lanka
Belihuloya River Camping
Belihuloya is a village in the Ratnapura district which is in the Sabaragamuwa province of Sri Lanka. It is a scenic hillside location where the climate is transitional because it links the hill and low country as well as the dry and wet zones. It is roughly 160 kilometers far from Colombo to the southeast. The area has an annual temperature of about 28. 3°c and the mean annual rainfall of 1875 to 2500 millimeters.

It is a perfect location for nature lovers since it consists of moist semi-evergreen forests, montane temperature forests, tropical savanna forests and dry grasslands making it one of the richest biodiversity spots. The other specialty of Belihuloya is the natural rock pool which is a perfect bathing spot with unpolluted crystal clear water which is created by the intersection of two streams namely Belihul Oya and Galagama Oya. Other than that you can go canoeing in the calm and still waters of Samanalawewa reservoir and go trekking exploring through the perimeter of the reservoir.

This campsite can be visited any time of the year. Camping companies like River Garden Resort offer semi-luxury camping experiences just for you.

Knuckles Mountain Camping Sri Lanka
Knuckles Mountain Range Camping
This is a UNESCO world heritage site in Sri Lanka. The Knuckles Mountain Range is located in the Matale and Kandy districts of Sri Lanka in the north-central highlands. The mountain range got its name ‘Knuckles’ because the five mountains look like a back of clenched fist when viewed from certain angles. It is also known as the Dumbara mountain range. This area is one of the best and loveliest nature attractions in Sri Lanka.

What you will get to see around your campsite here at knuckles are lush green and thick forests, acres of tea plantations, streams, waterfalls, grasslands, rugged mountain peaks and biodiversity that is unbelievably unique. Above 34% of Sri Lanka’s endemic trees, shrubs and herbs are only found in this area while 20% of them are endemic to Sri Lanka. It is also home to many animals like wild boar, spotted deer, giant squirrel, barking deer, purple-faced leaf monkey, mongoose and porcupine. Crestless lizard, pigmy lizard, kangaroo lizard and leaf nose lizard are endemic only to Knuckles range. It is also home to more than 200 bird species, 15 of them endemic to Sri Lanka. Moreover, around 31 species of mammals and 20 species of amphibians are reported in the area. All these will definitely make the camping more interesting.

The climate here is unpredictable. The temperature varies between 5.5°c to 35°c. The average annual rainfall ranges between 3000 to 5000 milliliters. Best time to visit the Knuckles Mountain Range is in between March and October.

Some camping companies which offers you the best camping experience of all are Knuckles Forest Lodge Campsite, Sri Lanka Eco Camping and Mahoora Tented Safari Camps.

Vaddha Village Camping Sri Lanka
Vaddha Village Camping
The indigenous people in Sri Lanka or the Vaddhas are considered to be like the aborigines. They are also known as the people of the forest. This is the oldest and rarest culture and civilization in the county. Neolithic ancestors suggest that their ancestors inhabited Sri Lanka as far back as 1000 BC and since then, they have roamed between the plains of North Central region and the central mountains of the country in their history. However, they are now only confined to Dambana, a remote jungle village located in the hill country of Sri Lanka.

They have a unique culture that is deeply rooted in them from their ancestors. Although these people are a little bit modernized today, they have not changed their hunting and other activities which inherited from their forefathers. These people still practice habits like hunting, fishing, exchanging them and bees honey with local people for their needs like clothes and blades.

If you are more curious about them and their style of living, the best thing is camping close to them. The Vaddas too will be more than happy to share and show their ways of life to you, with a bow slung behind them and with an axe blade hung on their shoulders. This will give you the real impression that they are the descendants of the proud forest warriors since the dawn of time.

There are many camping companies like Sri Lanka Expeditions and Mahoora Tented Safari Camps - Dambana to direct you in the entire stay and camp in there. You will get the chances to experience drives to the vadda villages, meet them, have lunch at village camps even relish their wonderful unique cuisines, Bush walk in the village accompanied by Vadda people while they demonstrate hunting methods of them and get to know more about their culture and living styles. This will be once in a lifetime experience for you. You can visit here any time of the year.

Kitulgala Forest Camping Sri Lanka
Camping in Kitulgala Forest Reserve
Rainforest camping in the Kitulgala forest reserve is definitely for the adventure lovers. This is the ideal place for white water rafting, trekking, nature trials, bird watching, cycling, river expeditions, swimming in waterfalls and confidence jumps. You will be able to wake up with the chirping of birds and the sound of waterfalls in your campsites.

Kitulgala forest reserve is located about 95 kilometers away from Colombo in the Sabaragamuwa province in Sri Lanka. This is the wettest zone in the county. The Kelani River flows through Kitulgala attracting so many people to the place. January to March is the best season for white water rafting since it's the dry period. About 5 kilometers upstream from the Kitulgala village, has the most suitable places for white water rafting. In addition to that, Kitulgala also gives you the opportunity to experience more adventures like adventure water sports, canyoning, white water and flat water kayaking and many more.

Some recommended camping companies that will guide you to have the most adventurous and most relaxing camping experiences in Kitulgala Rainforest Reserve are Adventure Base Camp, Borderlands and Go Kitulgala. You can receive a decent and comfortable camping accommodation there.

Minneriya National Park Camping Sri Lanka
Camping in Minneriya National Park
Minneriya National Park is located in the North-Central province of Sri Lanka, between Polonnaruwa and Habarana. This is a wildlife sanctuary where you can go for safari camping. This park is located near the old Minneriya tank and is about 182 kilometers away from Colombo. Minneriya is one of the 70 important bird areas (IBAs) of Sri Lanka.

This is in the dry zone of Sri Lanka, and the temperature varies from 20°c to 34°c. The best time to visit the Minneriya park is from May to September.

You can get closer views of large herds of elephants, toque macaques, crocodiles, sambar deer, and many more wild animals. If you are lucky enough, you will have the rare chance of spotting leopards and sloth bears too. It is a home for 24 species of mammals, 160 species of birds, nine species of amphibians, 25 species of reptiles, 26 species of fish and 75 species of butterflies. The habitats you will get to see are forests, scrublands, grasslands, rocky outcrops, wetlands, and abandoned farmlands. You can witness all of this by camping in the Minneriya National Park.

Minneriya National Park safari camp and Mahoora safari camp in Minneriya are two main camping providers who could guide you throughout your camping trip in the Minneriya National Park.

Meemure Camping Sri Lanka
Camping in Meemure
Meemure is a remote village located in the Knuckles Mountain Range. That is in between the border of the Kandy and Matale districts. It's is around 50 kilometers away from Kandy and 195 kilometers far from Colombo. The only way to get there is from the Hunnasgiriya Mountain, of the Knuckles Mountain Range.

Only about 125 families live in this village, and that is around 400 individuals. This is a unique village since the residents here has a lifestyle of their own without depending on the outside world. They rely so much on the waterfalls and evergreen forests of the Knuckles. They survive on them. They mainly cultivate paddy, pepper, and spices to earn their living. There are a few who sells toddy and treacle made of jaggery palms. Their homes are made of clay and spear grass which are very eco-friendly. The most outstanding thing is their boundary walls are built out of quartz. There is only one tiny boutique for the whole village where they buy essentials like salt, sugar, and clothes. Even the road to reach there is a small trail where only tuk tuks, jeeps and small trucks can pass. There are no mobile or data connections. It's near isolated from the outside world.

The other specialty in the Meemure village is its splendid biodiversity with the land of 700 acres. The Heen River flows through the southern border of the village. Meemure is very close to the heavenly Ravana Ella Falls.

Many streams that begin from the Knuckles spreads throughout the village just highlighting and adding more to the beauty to it. These waters are home to 25 species of freshwater fish. Eight types are endemic to there, and seven are nationally threatened. The vegetation varies from semi-evergreen forests to Montana forests. There are over 130 bird species and 20 amphibian species which 12 are endemic.

Camping there best way to witness this fascinating village and its beauty as it is. Not only that you can also go in the one and only natural waterfall slide in the country, hike, swim in natural pools with crystal clear water, go on the highest confidence jump in the country which is 50 feet tall, go trekking in the jungle, tour the Meemure village and experience their traditional cuisine and customs too. Meemure camping site, Meemure forest lodge and campsite, Hotel Meemure campsite are some camping companies which will provide you with a camping night in the unique Meemure village. This will be a once-in-a-lifetime experience for you for sure.

Horton Plains Camping Sri Lanka
Camping in Horton Plains
Horton Plains National Park is one of the UNESCO world heritage sites in Sri Lanka. You could say it is the coldest and windiest area of the island.

It is located at an altitude of 2,100 meters above sea level in the central highlands of the country and covers over an area of 3,169 hectares of land. The average annual temperature is recorded to be 14°C to 16°C but the temperature drops to about 5°C with strong gale force winds during the daytime in the dry season. The yearly rainfall is recorded as 5000 millimeters.

It has become a very famous tourist attraction because of the stunning views, rare creatures, and the coldest climate. Moreover, most importantly, the escarpment called the World's End which is 900 meters high, and the breathtaking Bakers falls in the Horton Plains. Bakers fall formed by the Belihuloya which is a branch of the Walawe River. World's end is located to the southern border of Horton Plains. Three main rivers of Sri Lanka namely Mahaweli, Kelani and Walawe spring from the Horton Plains.

It is the home to a variety of indigenous flora and fauna which are confined to Horton Plains only. The vegetation varies as Montane evergreen forests, grasslands, marshy lands and aquatic ecosystems. The Sri Lankan sambar deer herds can be seen more commonly in the park. It is also one of the important bird areas (IBA) of Sri Lanka with 87 species of birds and 21 of them endemic to Sri Lanka and four which can only be found in the Horton Plains. They are Sri Lanka blue magpie, dull-blue flycatcher, Sri Lanka white-eye and Sri Lanka wood pigeon. The other fauna includes 24 mammal species, nine reptile species, and eight amphibian species. The Horton Plains slender Loris which is a subspecies of slender red Loris can only be found in this area in Sri Lanka and is considered and one of the world's most endangered primates. Also, this is the only national park in Sri Lanka where there are no elephants. They became extinct in the area recently.

Horton Plains is a participatory camping location. The campers should contribute to the process of setting up the camp. But not to worry there are Wildlife Department Campsites also, but you have to take the essential camping gear with you. Mahoora Tented Safari Camps is another option.

Sinharaja Rainforest Camping Sri Lanka
Camping in Sinharaja Rainforest
Sinharaja Rainforest is another UNESCO world heritage site in Sri Lanka. It is a national park as well as a Biodiversity Hotspot. It is located in the Sabaragamuwa and Southern provinces and spans around an area of 88.64 square kilometers (34.22 Sq mi). The distance from Colombo to Sinharaja Rainforest reserve is 92 kilometers straight and the road distance is 160 kilometers.

This rainforest is highly virgin and is also a part of the Sri Lanka lowland rain forests ecoregion. It has the richest biodiversity and it is full of endemic trees, insects, amphibians, reptiles, birds and mammals. Since the forest is thick, it's hard to notice wildlife in the Sinharaja Rainforest. There are only about three elephants and 15 leopards recorded. The endemic purple-faced langur is the most commonly seen large mammal. Out of Sri Lanka’s 26 endemic birds, all the 20 Rainforest bird species can be found here. Green pit viper and hump-nosed vipers are endemic reptiles that can be found here. It is also home to a massive variation of amphibians mainly tree frogs and invertebrates like common birdwing, butterflies and leeches which are also native to the forest.

If you are finding for a place to camp where you want to breathe in fresh air and listen to the sounds of nature, watch birds and have a nice dip in the crystal clear cool waters, I would recommend you the Sinharaja Rainforest Reserve. This is also the only rainforest in Sri Lanka where you can trek through the virgin rainforests just in the rich vegetation.

The best visiting times of the year are from December to April and from August to September. The camping companies like Sinharaja Adventure Resort, Trip Peaks Camping Site, Mahoora Tented Safari Camps will guide you to explore the beauty of this outstanding Rainforest during your camping trip.

Sorabora Lake Camping Sri Lanka
Sorabora Lake Campsite
The Sorabora Lake is in Mahiyanganaya, in the Badulla district, Uva province of Sri Lanka. This lake is of great ancient value other than its picture-perfect view. This is an incredible place you must visit to experience the beauty of it since it cannot be expressed in words.

It is an ancient reservoir which had been built using amazing engineering technology back in the days of king Dutugemunu (161 BC - 137 BC) by a giant named Bulatha. This giant is said to be the person who supplied betel leaves to the king. He has carried one rock by one and made a bank keeping them one over another and bound them with soil while passing the place every day to deliver betel leaves to the king. Continuing this for years, it ended up as the massive tank. This is a work of some workforce and this shows how strong the ancient Sinhalese were.

The sluice gate of the lake is made with expert engineering skills on a natural rock. It still functions today. This lake itself is a human-made masterpiece of the ancient Sri Lankans which has been built by blocking the Diyawanna Oya. It is spread on a surface area of 4.5 square kilometers (1.7 Sq mi). The water volume of the lake is 14.6 million cubic meters (11,800 acre-ft).

This is an ideal place to relax and spend time away from the hectic everyday lifestyles. The specialty of camping here is you can camp on a canoe. It's inspiring to mount your camping tent on a floating canoe and camp while you are moving on water. You can fish too and while not missing the breathtaking view of the sunrise and sunset in the evening sky. This place is also the most fantastic place for bird watching, especially during sunrise and sunset. The tropical climate and the wilderness in the Sorabora Lake make your camping night just perfect.

You can visit and camp here any time of the year, but it's advisable to avoid the rainy seasons for the best experience. Camping companies like Mahiyanganaya Sorabora Lake Camping offer you a memorable camping night on the floating canoes of the stunning Sorabora Lake.